---
title: Release Notes
display_title: Command-Line Interface Release Notes
date: 2020-07-06
weight: 20
toc: true
---

This page provides the summary of each Command-Line Interface (CLI) release for webOS Open Source Edition (OSE).

## v1.12.0 (July 2020)

This version is compatible with **webOS OSE 2.6.0**. See below for the new and changed features in this release.

### New features

* Supports to launch Web Inspector on dual display (`–-display` option) in `ares-inspect`.
* Supports to set a default device (`-–default` option) in `ares-setup-device`.
* Supports to run a web app without installation ( `--hosted` option) in `ares-launch`.

### Changed features

* Updated Node.js version to v8.12.0.
* Updated descriptions in `--help` option.

### Removed features

* Removed a Git dependency in `ares-generate`.
* Removed Enyo features in `ares-package` and `ares-generate`.

### Fixed issues

* Fixed typos.

### Known issues

* Screencast feature of Web Inspector is not working on OSE emulator.

## v1.11.1 (May 2020)

This version is compatible with **webOS OSE 2.5.0**. See below for the new and changed features in this release.

### Changed features

* Updated QML template
    * Added `applications` group to the permission of QML app.
    * Set `displayAffinity` in QML template.

### Fixed issues

* Corrected typos in QML template.

## v1.11.0 (March 2020)

This version is compatible with **webOS OSE 2.4.0**. See below for the new and changed features in this release.

### New features

* Supports web app launch on dual displays.

### Changed features

* Changed web app and JS service templates.
* Changed `version` property in `appinfo.json` to optional.
* Changed a default value of `title` property to `new app` in `appinfo.json` template.
* Updated dependent npm.

### Removed features

* Deleted a file and properties related to `largeIcon` in the template.

### Fixed issues

* Fixed a bug related to `-v` option.
* Fixed correct machine architecture in packaging file.

### Known issues

* webOS OSE cannot launch the same web app on different displays at the same time.
    * For example, if you launch a web app on display 0 and then launch the same app on display 1, it just re-launch the app on display 0. (Nothing happened on display 1.)

      {{< note >}}
      In this example, the message ('_Launched application com.sample.app on display 1_') might be returned on terminal, but this message can be ignored.
      {{< /note >}}

## v1.10.2 (November 2019)

This version is compatible with **webOS OSE 2.1.0**. See below for the new and changed features in this release.

### New features

* Added a QML app template.

### Changed features

* Changed template names, `basic` and `webappicon` to `webapp` and `icon`.

### Known issues

* When you install an app using `ares-install`, the icon of the app is not displayed on Home Launcher.

## v1.10.1 (October 2019)

This version is compatible with **webOS OSE 2.0.0**. See below for the new, changed, and removed features along with fixed issues and known issues in this release.

### New features

* Added a web app template that uses the WebOSSerivceBridge API.
* Added a feature to check the validity of `version` in `appinfo.json` when packaging an app, which checks whether each version number is 9 digits or less.
* Added a guide text regarding the default target device to the CLI help.

### Changed features

* Changed to show appInstallService's error text when app installation fails.
* Changed the icon images generated by executing `ares-generate --template` to new images.

### Removed features

* Removed the `webOS.js` library.
* `ares-inspect --service` option cannot be used with the `--open` option.
* Removed EULA that appeared on CLI when executing a command for the first time, which was replaced by EULA that appears on the developer site when downloading the CLI package.

### Fixed issues

* Enabled the `ares-inspect --service` option.
* Fixed an issue where `ares-inspect --open` option cannot open a browser on Windows.
* Fixed to create a `.ssh` directory after executing `ares-setup-device`.

### Known issues

* When you install or uninstall an app using `ares-install`, a running Home Launcher disappears from the screen. To make the app listed on Home Launcher, you must reboot the target device.
    * After rebooting the target device, the external app is listed on Home Launcher, but the icon of the app is not displayed.

## v1.9.4 (June 2019)

See below for the new and changed features, bug fixes, and known issues in this release.

### New features

* Added a feature to check the version rule of your app when you package your app.
* Added a feature to check if `id` and `version` exist in the `appinfo.json` file of your app when you package your app.
* Added a feature to add read permission to all files of your app when you package your app.

### Changed features

* Updated templates (changed usable webOS APIs and how to use PmLog, `appinfo.json`).
* Changed the scenario to prompt you whether to overwrite an existing folder when creating a project. Now, CLI prompts you whether to overwrite the folder as soon as you executes the `ares-generate` command with the existing folder name. In older versions, CLI prompts you when you enter your app information.
* Changed the CLI folder structure due to code refactoring.

### Bug fixes

* Fixed an issue where `ares-setup-device --reset` does not print the reset device list.

### Known Issues

* This version of CLI does not support `ares-inspect --service` temporarily.

## v1.8.1 (July 2018)

### New and changed features

* Changed the package filenames (from `webos-ose-cli-rpi_sdk-*.*` to `ares-webos-cli-ose_sdk-*.*`).

* Added the end-user license agreement (EULA).

* Added a template for hosted web apps.

## v1.6.4 (March 2018)

This is the first official release of CLI for webOS OSE. For a detailed list of key features, see [key features]({{< relref "cli-user-guide#key-features">}}).

### Known issues

* Web Inspector and Node Inspector work on Blink-based browsers (Chrome and Opera) but not on non-Blink browsers (Internet Explorer, FireFox, and Safari).

* The emulator should be running prior to using `ares-install` or `ares-launch` commands. CLI does not run the emulator automatically.

* `ares-server` and `ares-inspect` commands are not terminated on their own, and can only be terminated manually by pressing **Control+C**.

* `ares-package` shows an error message if an app filename contains non-ASCII characters. (App filenames should contain Latin letters ONLY.)

* `ares-setup-device --search|-s` (Search webOS Devices) is not working, because webOS OSE does not contain upnpd.
